README.md, before:

# Python in High Performance Computing

Exercise material and model answers for the CSC course "Python in High Performance Computing". The course is part of PRACE Training activity at CSC.

This master branch contains always the material for latest course, past
courses are stored in tags.

Online version of the course is run regularly in [FutureLearn](https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/python-in-hpc). 

Articles and videos of the course are also available in a simple form in this [site](docs/mooc/index.md).

## Exercises

[General instructions](exercise-instructions.md)


### Basic array manipulation

 - [Reference vs. copy](numpy/reference-copy)
 - [Array creation](numpy/array-creation)
 - [Array slicing](numpy/array-slicing)
 - [Split and combine arrays](numpy/split-combine)
 - [Subdiagonal matrix](numpy/subdiagonal-matrix)

### NumPy tools

 - [Input and output](numpy/input-output)
 - [Polynomials](numpy/polynomials)
 - [Random numbers](numpy/random-numbers)
 - [Linear algebra](numpy/linear-algebra)

### Advanced NumPy

 - [Advanced indexing](numpy/advanced-indexing)
 - [Mutating DNA sequence](numpy/dna-mutation)
 - [Translation with broadcasting](numpy/broadcast-translation)
 - [Finite-difference](numpy/finite-difference)
 - [Numerical integration](numpy/integration)
 - [Temporary arrays](numpy/temporary-arrays)
 - [Numexpr](numpy/numexpr)

### Performance analysis

 - [Using cProfile](performance/cprofile)

### Optimising with Cython

 - [Creating simple extension](cython/simple-extension)
 - [Using static typing](cython/static-typing)
 - [Using C-functions](cython/c-functions)
 - [Optimising heat equation](cython/heat-equation)

### Interfacing with libraries

 - [C libraries](interface/c)

### Multiprocessing

 - [Simple calculation](multiprocessing/simple-calculation)
 - [Work distribution](multiprocessing/work-distribution)

### Parallel programming with mpi4py

 - [Hello World](mpi/hello-world)
 - [Simple message exchange](mpi/message-exchange)
 - [Message chain](mpi/message-chain)
 - [Non-blocking communication](mpi/non-blocking)
 - [Collective operations](mpi/collectives)

### Bonus exercises

 - [Game of life](numpy/game-of-life)
 - [Rotation with broadcasting](numpy/broadcast-rotation)
 - [Two dimensional heat equation](numpy/heat-equation)
 - [Parallel heat equation](mpi/heat-equation)

Commit message:

integrating dask and CSC tutorials

README.md, after:

# Python in High Performance Computing

This binder image includes several exercices from the CSC course "Python in High Performance Computing". The course is part of PRACE Training activity at CSC (https://www.futurelearn.com/courses/python-in-hpc). 

Also, it includes material from a Dask tutorial given at SciPy 2020 conference.

## Exercises


### Basic array manipulation

 - [Reference vs. copy](numpy/reference-copy)
 - [Array creation](numpy/array-creation)
 - [Array slicing](numpy/array-slicing)
 - [Split and combine arrays](numpy/split-combine)
 - [Subdiagonal matrix](numpy/subdiagonal-matrix)

### NumPy tools

 - [Input and output](numpy/input-output)
 - [Polynomials](numpy/polynomials)
 - [Random numbers](numpy/random-numbers)
 - [Linear algebra](numpy/linear-algebra)

### Advanced NumPy

 - [Advanced indexing](numpy/advanced-indexing)
 - [Mutating DNA sequence](numpy/dna-mutation)
 - [Translation with broadcasting](numpy/broadcast-translation)
 - [Finite-difference](numpy/finite-difference)
 - [Numerical integration](numpy/integration)
 - [Temporary arrays](numpy/temporary-arrays)
 - [Numexpr](numpy/numexpr)

### Performance analysis

 - [Using cProfile](performance/cprofile)

### Multiprocessing

 - [Simple calculation](multiprocessing/simple-calculation)
 - [Work distribution](multiprocessing/work-distribution)

### Parallel programming with mpi4py

 - [Hello World](mpi/hello-world)
 - [Simple message exchange](mpi/message-exchange)
 - [Message chain](mpi/message-chain)
 - [Non-blocking communication](mpi/non-blocking)
 - [Collective operations](mpi/collectives)

### Dask

 - [Delayed](dask/01_dask.delayed.ipynb)
 - [Understanding 'Lazy'](dask/01x_lazy.ipynb)
 - [Bags](dask/02_bag.ipynb)
 - [Arrays](dask/03_array.ipynb)
 - [Dataframe](dask/04_dataframe.ipynb)
 - [Distributed mode](dask/05_distributed.ipynb)
 - [Distributed advanced](dask/06_distributed_advanced.ipynb)
 - [Storage optimization](dask/07_dataframe_storage.ipynb)
 - [Machine Learning](dask/08_machine_learning.ipynb)

### Bonus exercises

 - [Game of life](numpy/game-of-life)
 - [Rotation with broadcasting](numpy/broadcast-rotation)
 - [Two dimensional heat equation](numpy/heat-equation)
 - [Parallel heat equation](mpi/heat-equation)
